<!-- START SECTION -->
## The Circulating Commodity

And why not? If Marx can have such a continuing animating quality, if his
writings continue to disturb the ruling capitalist class so deeply, perhaps it's
because Marx was never purely a theorist of the industrial stage of Capitalism,
but was the first theorist of digital Capitalism. For this is the crucial moment
of "The Immediate Process of Capitalist Production." It is not really about
Capitalism as production, but about Capitalism as circulation. In Marx's
estimation, the charisma of Capitalism rests on the fact that the Capitalism is
always "in circulation," only episodically coming out of circulation to enter
into production. That's the role of the commodity-form. It performs the
aesthetic function of a hinge experience:[13 ] injecting itself into the world
of raw materiality - human labor, agriculture, manufacturing - only to
immediately recode material experience with itself as the new "universal,
elementary form of production." While the commodity-form pre-dates Capitalism
(Marx discusses the commodity as also existent in pre-bourgeois modes of
production), the commodity-form has this particular quality. It is a cybernetic
code, simultaneously transforming material experience into a "universal,
elementary form of value," and representing the possibility of "transfiguring"
use-value into exchange-value, constant Capital and variable Capital into
surplus-value. The commodity-form is the primary cybernetic code in Capitalism
understood as a process of "valorization." In its first appearance as the
universal value-form of the process of industrial Capitalism, the commodity-form
is a sign-form.

While the writings of Marx have themselves a "distinct social character'
invested with all the millenarian dreams of socialist resistance to the
Capitalist axiomatic, what drives Marx's thought forward is his profound insight
into Capitalism as "pure circulation," as only provisionally, but not
necessarily, about production. Here, the process of Capitalist valorization
signaled by the appearance of the commodity-form as the "universal, elementary
form of production," finds its first provisional language in the unification of
labor-power and the valorization process, in the metamorphosis of the process of
Capitalist production into the form of Capitalist accumulation. But the first
historical appearance of the commodity-form as the "Capitalist depositary"[14 ]
of the immediate process of production is always and only a first tentative step
towards the disappearance of the "immediate process of production" into the
production of the process of immediate virtualization. For Marx, capitalism as a
relentless "circuit of circulation," ultimately overthrows the commodity-form
understood as the universal, elementary value-form of the immediate process of
(industrial) production in favor of the circulating commodity,[15] the commodity
that never leaves the circuit of circulation, never enters directly into the
process of production, never ceases to be the universal, elementary form of the
valorization process. In its latest appearance as the value-form of the digital
phase of Capitalist production, the commodity-form is a virtual form. Abandoning
production in favor of speed of circulation, disappearing labor at the behest of
Capitalism that increasingly assumes the form of an artificial intelligence
construct, overcoming the dialectics of use-value and exchange-value in favor of
the virtualization of the value-form, the digital commodity-form assumes the
universal, elementary form of the stock market. Here, the "circuit of
circulation" that was always the repressed dream of Capitalist production can
finally achieve determinate (virtual) form. The stock market, then, as the fully
realized expression of the digital commodity-form: pure commodity, pure value,
pure speed, pure code, pure virtuality, pure price.
The Mirror of Velocity
"As the universally necessary form of the product, as the specific
characteristic of the process of production, the commodity palpably comes into
its own in the course of Capitalist production. The product becomes increasingly
one-sided and massive in character."[16]
  Whereas in industrial Capitalism, the commodity undergoes a transformation in
which the "product assumes its commodity-character and hence its
exchange-value,"[17] in digital Capitalism it is the commodity itself which
assumes its virtual character and hence its virtual value. In industrial
Capitalism, the commodity unifies labor-power and the valorization process. In
digital Capitalism, the process of valorization unifies knowledge-power and the
speed of circulation of the digital network. In the manufacturing stage of
Capitalism, the commodity assumes an immediate "social character" and is
"one-sided and massive in character." In digital Capitalism, the digital
commodity has a distinct virtual character, a vector not a magnitude,
n-dimensional not one-sided. Here, the valorization process is about speed, not
labor, virtuality not sociality. It is about the character of circulation, not
the circulation of the social character of the commodity-form.
  As to the question, " What is objectified in the digital commodity-form?", the
response: not labor (except as a residual category), but knowledge. A
"Capitalist depositary," the digital commodity-form objectifies knowledge to
such a degree of intensity that we may speak now not of surplus-labor, but of
surplus-knowledge - cybernetic knowledge in the form of "intellectual property
rights" expressive of the digital nervous system which, breaking free from its
ground in individual consciousness, floats across the spectrum of digital nodes
as a pure circulating medium of digital exchange.
  Marx was correct. "The commodity is a transformation of Capital that has
valorized itself."[18] But whereas in the industrial stage of Capitalism, Marx
located the code of the commodity in a valorization process wherein "...the
commodity must acquire a twofold mode of existence if it is to be rendered fit
for the circulation process"[19] (use-value and exchange-value), in digital
Capitalism the virtualization of the commodity-form injects a third term into
the equation. No longer the dialectic of use-value and exchange-value, but now a
recombinant commodity-form wherein the speed of circulation depends for its very
existence on the transformation of use-value into an economics of speed and
exchange-value into an economy of virtualities. Whereas what is valorized in
industrial Capitalism is the commodity-form itself as the "universal, elementary
value-form,"[20] in digital Capitalism it is Capital itself that is valorized in
the form of singularities and networks and portals and gateways. When the value
of the commodity-form finds its equivalence in the speed of circulation, then
the circulation of the commodity-form of value is the pure sign of (digital)
Capitalism that has succeeded in valorizing itself. Virtual Capitalism, then, as
a mirror of velocity.

From Labor as a "Factor of Production" to the Production of "Factored Labor"
"Hence the rule of the Capitalist over the worker is the rule of things over
man, of dead labor over the living, of the product over the producer." [21]
Marx claims that the result of the Capitalist mode of production "is steadily to
increase the productivity of labor."[22] But what if under the pressure of the
speed of circulation of the Capitalist axiomatic associated with the digital
commodity-form, the "productivity of labor" were to be increased with such
intensification that labor itself as a "factor of production" is disappeared in
favor of the production of factored labor. Factored labor? That is digital labor
not as a purely economic phenomenon, but as a relentless exercise in political
discipline. Digital labor as a circulating medium of networked exchange - coded,
portaled, networked, and mediated - that is simultaneously a precondition of the
speed of circulation of the digital commodity-form and the stamped product of
the digital nervous system. Factored labor, then, as a regime of disciplinary
managerial practices: a coded set of work procedures the goal of which is to
create a seamless interface of human flesh and machines. In this case, factored
labor would materialize in the work situation that Marx prophesied in Capital: a
future not of "living labor" but "dead labor." Dead labor, that is, as an
artificial construct of managerial procedures tattooed on the laboring.
This is the real meaning of virtualization. Not simply the virtualization of
Capital by the movement beyond production to the valorization of the circuit of
Capital itself, but throwing laboring flesh into the speed vectors of virtual
Capital. Here, beyond Marx's understanding of work as essentially involving the
private appropriation of the surplus-value of living labor, what is really
appropriated in digital Capitalism is the time of human surplus itself: the
relentless translation of every gesture of the laboring body into an active
reinforcement of the Capitalist axiomatic. Beyond psychological repression,
virtual labor concerns the shutting down of living, embodied labor, and the
triumph of human flesh as a disciplined labor machine. This is also Heidegger's
language of harvesting: our reduction to the inertia of the "standing-reserve."

<!-- END SECTION -->
