<!-- SECTION START -->
### From Dead Labor to Virtual Knowledge

Digital Capitalism is focused on the struggle over the emancipation of
knowledge-value from embodied knowledge: its genealogy, its circulation as a
generalized medium of cybernetic exchange, and its final appearance, not in the
residual form of dead labor, but of dead knowledge.

In exactly the same way that labor functioned in industrial Capitalism both as
an embodiment of use-value and as the dominant value-form of exchange-value,
knowledge functions in digital Capitalism as a regulator of use-labor and
exchange-labor. The dominant medium of exchange of digital Capitalism, knowledge
breaks forever with its genealogical roots in individual consciousness, becoming
instead the key value-form of cybernetic culture. Not living knowledge with its
origins in individual subjectivity, embodied memory, or granulated knowledge of
specific labor practices, but virtual knowledge as the dynamic medium of
cybernetic culture.  

Virtual Knowledge? That's knowledge when it is first invested with the alien
quality of value, when knowledge first ceases to a matter of individual
consciousness, becoming instead a value-form, a circulating medium within whose
deflationary and inflationary flows the world is cybernetized, coded here with
the binary logic of 0/1, there spoken of as a 'digital nervous system.' In the
same way that labor was a measure of market value in modern Capitalism,
knowledge is now a value of the measure of cyberneticity of digital Capitalism.
It is around the question of knowledge-value that the fundamental class
conflicts of digital Capitalism first organize, sometimes in the daily repressed
form of the domination of human imagination by the performance-requirements of
the virtual workplace, at other times by open rebellions of a rising tide of
global counter-knowledge - environmentalism, collective labor rights, human
rights - against the 'free circulation' of knowledge-value, which is to say of
cybernetic Capital, so necessary for the continued functioned of digital
Capitalism.

<!-- SECTION END -->
