<!-- START SECTION -->
### Digital Sweat Shops as Marx's "Dead Labor"

Now, many working theorists have been this way before. Jean-Francois Lyotard
recognized the death knell in the war machine of labor power, immediately
calling for a recovery of a "libidinal economy,"[23] a primitive pre-Marxism
that would take laboring flesh back to an economy of pleasure and pain, an
economy of sex and muscle, with the psychoanalytics of the suppressed id as the
wild card in-between. In The Mirror of Production, Jean Baudrillard was less
utopian, more severe.[24] In a twentieth-century reprise of that earlier meeting
of French revolutionary thought of 1848 with the philosophy of the German
enlightenment, Jacobins with Hegel, the Paris Commune with German conservative
reactionism, Baudrillard diagnosed Marx's sleight of hand at the splitting of
labor and labor-power for what it was: the foundations of a "structural law of
value"[25] in which Capitalism was to be cyberneticized in the form of the
ruling axiomatic of signifier (use-value) and signified (exchange-value). More
than Lyotard who placed his theoretical bets on drawing out the differend in
Marx's theory of labor, Baudrillard wrote The Mirror of Production as Marx's
avenging angel, always insisting that the labor theory of value, far from
inaugurating a new possibility of proletarian, yet along universal,
emancipation, only functioned to install the "rational terrorism of the
code"[26] as the ruling order of the Capitalist axiomatic. For his fateful
insights into the happy complicity of Marxism and Capitalism in sharing exactly
the same episteme of the structural law of value, Baudrillard has suffered the
usual fate: denounced everywhere as a cynic, this the most political of all
thinkers, the most rigorously and naturally Marxist of all the post-Marxists,
banished to an early twilight of thought on the (Parisian) margins.
If the twin gestures of Lyotard's Libidinal Economy and Baudrillard's The Mirror
of Production cannot be assimilated into conventional Marxism, perhaps that is
because Marx himself is the first post-Marxist, the first theorist, that is, who
unsettled by the ambiguities of identify and difference disguised here as the
language of labor and labor-power, there as the supposedly warring poles of
use-value and exchange-value, wrote out his labor theory of value as a secret
prolegomenon to a stage of Capitalism not yet existent. A code waiting for a
material form, a theory of value awaiting its definite historical conditions of
labor. Marx's Capital, then, not so much an analysis of the definite conditions
for the socialization of labor, although that too, but a secret history written
much in the tradition of the cabal, of a future Capitalism that would represent,
as Marx theorises in the third volume of Capital the really existent history of
"dead labor." It is, of course, around the corpse of Marx's "dead labor" that
Libidinal Economy and The Mirror of Production circle, sometimes settling in the
desert sands for a feeding frenzy of delirious theory, sometimes startled by the
approach of passing armies of the night, taking flight, almost like a permanent
evocation of ecstasy that was the Paris Commune and the slow decline of the
German bourgeois restoration. Whether by way of Marx who studiously wrote out
the codes of the (industrial) Capitalist axiomatic only to write "dead labor" as
its epitaph and future, or by virtue of the chilling lightness of being of the
French mind in the form of Lyotard and Baudrillard who always and only begin
with the last rites of dead labor, the specter of post-labor haunts the
Capitalist axiomatic.

And this is as it should be. Because whether expressed in the language of the
"structural law of value" or in terms of the "labor theory of value," Capitalism
has never been about really existent labor, but always about the subordination
of labor to the theory of value. Modern Capitalism, then, as an industrial
semiotics. A critical point because it indicates that if contemporary
Capitalism-- digital Capitalism with its globalized markets and circular flows
of Capital-- can so easily escape the question of labor, can so swiftly
disappear labor in the (domestic) form of "reductions in the work-place" or in
the (international) form of harvesting the world for perpetually new sources of
cheap labor, that does not indicate that Capitalism has escaped the question of
value. So then, two alternative theses. First, an epistemological thesis
concerning the historical transition of the value-form of Capitalism: Modern
Capitalism might have been coded by the labor theory of value, but 21st century
Capitalism will be organized under the sign of the knowledge-theory of value.
Digital Capitalism as networked knowledge, not a labor exchange. Certainly the
safest (theoretical) route. 

It requires for its affirmation only an acceptance
of the received wisdom that the epochal movement from industrial to cybernetic
Capitalism, from modern Capitalism premised on the labor theory of value to
postmodern Capitalism based on the knowledge theory of value takes the form of a
general historical movement to a knowledge-based society, with all its
implications for the triumph of a class of networked specialists over
traditional labor based in fading manufacturing and service sectors. Or, an
opposing ontological thesis. A strange thesis concerning the ambiguity of labor
and knowledge, that laboring activity is always knowledge-based activity, that
the knowledge-based society has its deepest genealogical roots in the first
worker who mastered the cybernetics of the machine age, and that if the
fantastic knowledge of the worker was somehow lost sight of in the rush to the
labor-theory of value that is not to say that it was not always knowledge-value,
not simply labor-value, that was put into play by the Capitalist axiomatic. Out
of this latter thesis, there emerges an enigmatic Marx. 

Not Marx as the 19th century theorist of the approaching struggle of proletariat and bourgeoisie over
the alternatively exploitative and emancipatory rites of the labor theory of
value, but the specter of Marx as the 21st century theorist who, in diagnosing
the objective historical conditions for labor-value, was in reality, a hundred
and fifty years before its time, analysing the future-world of an advanced
Capitalist society premised on the knowledge-theory of value. With the triumph
of digital Capitalism, it may well be that the proletarianization of
knowledge-work is only about to begin. If this is the case then Marx's theory of
class struggle may yet be awaiting its first moment of historical realization in
a fateful struggle over the falling rate of (digital) profit and the
exploitation of knowledge-value. From the exploitation of industrial labor to
the struggle over knowledge-value, understanding the digital future is in its
Marxian past.

<!-- END SECTION -->
